Here's the Gmapping ROS package,
which uses the grid-based fast SLAM algorithm.
Now, let's take a closer look at the properties of this package.
Gmapping contains a single node,
the slam gmapping one.
This node subscribes to the transforms tf,
relating the different frames of the laser,
robot base, and odometry as well as the robot laser scans.
The slam gmapping node will publish the occupancy grid map characteristic,
the 2D occupancy grid map,
and the entropy of distribution over robot pose.
Before you proceed with this lab,
access the gmapping package documentation using the link in
the instructor nodes and focus on the package different topics, services, and parameters.
To experiment with the gmapping package,
we need to interface it with the robot deployed in an environment.
For that need, we'll deploy the turtlebot robot in
a willow garage environment and map that
environment by tele-operating the robot using keyboard commands.
You've already seen the turtlebot which comes equipped with an RGB-D camera.
You might be thinking that this robot is not a good fit for
us since gmapping subscribe to laser scan measurements,
and the turtlebot is not equipped with a laser finder sensor.
Well, you'll be amazed to see that the turtlebot generates
laser measurements based on the depth images captured from its RGB-D camera.
To prove it to you, I'll be opening the turtlebot gazebo launch file.
If you look closer at these nodes you will notice that
the RGB-D depth images are being converted to laser measurements.
So a turtlebot can now be easily interfaced with the gmapping package.
To get going, we need to interface three different packages: the turtlebot gazebo,
the turtlebot teleop, and the gmapping.
Two of these packages are already installed in your catkin workspace from localization.
Luckily, the gmapping package can easily be interfaced with the other packages,
without remapping any of the topics.
Now, I will deploy the turtlebot in a willow garage environment.
To do so, I will open the terminal,
navigate to my catkin workspace,
source it, and launch the nodes.
Here, you can see the turtlebot deployed in an environment with multiple rooms.